#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing double
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\pdf_quoted_options "linkcolor=black, urlcolor=blue, citecolor=blue, pdfstartview={FitH}, hyperfootnotes=false, unicode=true"
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style apsr
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
\begin_inset Preview

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
author{Tewodaj Mogues
\backslash
thanks{International Monetary Fund, Expenditure Policy Division, Fiscal
 Affairs Department, Washington DC, USA} ,  Bjorn Van Campenhout
\backslash
thanks{Development Strategy and Governance Division, International Food
 Policy Research Institute, Leuven, Belgium - corresponding author: b.vancampenho
ut@cgiar.org} 
\backslash
footnotemark[3] ,  Caroline Miehe
\backslash
thanks{LICOS Centre for Institutions and Economic Performance, KULeuven,
 Leuven, Belgium} 
\backslash

\backslash
 Nassul Kabunga
\backslash
thanks{Uganda Bureau of Statistics, Kampala, Uganda} }
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset

The impact of community-based monitoring on public service delivery: A randomize
d control trial in Uganda
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
In many developing countries, poor delivery of public services remains an
 important problem.
 Through community-based monitoring, beneficiaries of public services can
 apply bottom-up pressure to under-performing service providers and their
 political leadership.
 In this spirit, the Government of Uganda organizes community forums—popularly
 known as barazas—where citizens receive information from government officials
 and get the opportunity to challenge them.
 We designed a cluster randomized control trial to assess the impact of
 this policy intervention on public service delivery in agriculture, health,
 education, and infrastructure.
 We further test the relative importance of the two main components of the
 intervention—information provision and citizen engagement.
 We also compare the effectiveness of barazas organized at the district
 level to the effectiveness of barazas organized at the sub-county level.
 Following a pre-specified confirmatory analysis, we do not find that the
 intervention had significant effects on general public service delivery,
 though there are signs of improvement in agricultural sector public services.
 We also find that the provision of information reduces in-kind contributions
 and increases cash contributions.
 A more exploratory analysis suggests that sub-county level barazas lead
 to improved drinking water and schooling infrastructure.
 Furthermore, barazas seem particularly effective for households in remote
 areas and may be an important catalyst to organize communities around public
 infrastructure in the absence of social cohesion.
 The fact that results are slightly more encouraging than similar community
 monitoring initiatives by non-governmental organizations may indicate that
 top-down monitoring may be more important in changing behavior of civil
 servants, but that bottom-up pressure from the community may be an effective
 way to pressure officials into increased top-down monitoring.
 We conclude that organizing barazas more frequently may increase the likelihood
 that officials implement what was decided upon during the events.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Keywords: public services, community-based monitoring, information, deliberation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
JEL-codes: H41, H72, H75
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Acknowledgment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Research discussed in this publication has been funded by the International
 Initiative for Impact Evaluation, Inc.
 (3ie) through the Global Development Network (GDN) under grant number RFQ
 PW2.18.UG.PG.
 This research was partly funded by the CGIAR Research Program on Policies,
 Institutions, and Markets (PIM), led by the International Food Policy Research
 Institute (IFPRI) and carried out with support from the 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "CGIAR Fund contributors"
target "https://www.cgiar.org/funders/"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 under grant number PIM 203002.002.221.
 This research was cleared by the Uganda National Council for Science and
 Technology (UNCST SS 5179), Makerere University School of Social Sciences
 Research Ethics Committee (MAKSS REC 05.19.291), as well as IFPRI's Institutional
 Review Board (DSG-19-1053).
 We would like to thank Alvina Erman, Jennifer Smart, Marc Charles Wanume,
 Wilberforce Walukano, Fiona Nattembo, Emmanuel Bizimungu, Leocardia Nabwire,
 Richard Ariong and people at the Office of the Prime Minister, Joseph Muserero
 in particular.
 The views expressed in this article are not necessarily those of 3ie or
 its members, or of GDN.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
